---
layout: post
title:  "A qualified Machine Learning PhD for Myself"
date:   2021-06-30 22:21:49 +1000
categories: ML
permalink: /:title.html
---

# What I am working for?
"Using no way as way; having no limitation as limitation." 


The following points are more of findings of myself rather than principles for my actions. Also, these points are not only for my research work but also for my point of views for my entire life.

* Passion: I do not think there exists anything else which is more important than my passion. Because passion in the moment would support my pursuit to the perfect and meaningful work in contrast to ["bullshit jobs"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bullshit_Jobs). 
* Ecosystem and in order: Some experience of other researchers prove that sometimes just following rigid principles would work for some particular scenarios, e.g., applying their base work in blockchain into distributed machine learning. IMPORTANT: I do not think that the way of doning these works is not good. So far, I cannot adapt to this way.  For example, I love to study the mathematical principles which are able to explain why this modelling algorithm works. This is always the part other people would misunderstand me in a way that I would like to explore more theoretical stuff. The truth is that I just cannot handle my life, my knowledge in a messy way. I would feel frustrated and lost, lose my passion and cause much negative emotion. In contrast, having the thing organized and unified make me feel satisfied and happy.

# How to deal with capital/paper pulishments?
For the fundings/paper publishments, I have no passion for these, but I did realize that I have my responsibility for my supervisor and university who support me since the day I accepted the support. Therefore, after figuing out the minimum expectations from my funders, I would plan to complete these tasks as derivations of my mainstream tree rooted in my real passion. This not only makes myself happy to do the thing I want, but also let me do my "perfect" job.




# Mind-changing
## Take criticisms seriously

"Unless you try to do something beyond what you have already mastered, you will never grow." --- Ralph Waldo Emerson

I wanna put this saying at the beginning because it cautions myself not only to expand the knowledge during the self-study but also to respect and take seriously to opinions of other academic members even though I feel embarrassed for some criticisms. I stress this because most researchers (especially senior researchers) may express their criticism in a intellectually superior manner. To be honest, whenever I get criticized like that, I feel frustrated, embarrassed and refuse to face the bleak life. However, I do realize the benefits from most of these cold criticism if I can analyze them objectively and take action on my deficiency, such as why I fail getting feedback from my report in group meeting, although I prepare a thorough analysis. Besides, a lot of following suggestions are summarized from criticisms from my peers and the respectful senior. I hate them when I hear these criticisms, but I love them so much when I grow myself because of these.

## Allow the knowlege gap in our knowledge structure
一般选择做研究的人一定会有很旺盛的刨根究底的欲望。这是一把双刃剑，也许它能在一定时间段让你获得更多的认可，但也许他会耽误你这一辈子都做不出被认可的东西。一般的人的社会属性没有完全被长期的求知欲压倒时，一定会在某个时刻做出妥协。所以这算不算是问题完全因人而异。本着我自己既不想在求知欲旺盛的时候被研究计划所干扰，又不想被周围的导师和同侪认为我一事无成。以下是我自己的解决方案
1. weekly report:这就相当于一个止损点
2. 在扩展到不是直接相关的knowledge的时候，think whether this could be the solution or any relation to your research questions. This is not only efficient for my research but also help me understand new knowledge.
3. we have to realize that "世上本没有路，走的人多了，也就形成路" so that we can drop those illusions to question the current research directions when we saw a interesting new topic. "条条大路通罗马"，“看起来像真理不代表是真理”，“坚持一点总有收获”。
The example is that ML engineers without knowledge of statistics. So why we need to learn statistics, it could be useful more implicitly like adjusting more efficient loss function. Why we need to learn optimization, it is good to devise more efficient training process or even quickly to digest new learning paradigm like meta learning. But are they really necessary? You can live without them and remember there are always knowledge you have not learnt but may improve you potential work.
4. we must achieve a point which is hard to understand. Do not be frustrated since as a researcher we should know each knowledge is 得来不易. It is normal to be stuck. Leave it for futher and do not doubt your intelligence since if you insist on your research directions, other intelligent people also will be stuck by your paper/code.

The reason is either we lose interests to focus on the knowledge (brain stop digesting "food") or we lack the components to brige our existing knowledge and understanding new knowledge. In either way, we should stop. Actually, that's also the reason why there exists good/bad students even though most of students have potential to learn and be good at any displine, I think.
5. Presentation on the group meeting: At my first group meeting, one of senior researchers critirizes me for not presenting my work in a collaborative way so that group members could discuss together for transferable ideas in their domains. In fact, I do not think that I was wrong since I always think it benefits more to focus on the depth in the existing works of our domain. When we grow and are confident of what is the real unsolved  problem and we want to solve. It may be a good way to have extended ideas from other domains. BTW, I did not argue this with the senior researcher since I prefer to letting any criticisms push myself to become a mature researcher faster.

 
# Practical actions to be efficiently recognized
## Make a annual plan for publishing the work

At the beginning of my PhD, I have not realized that the publication of papers is the main KPI for evaluating my work as a researcher. I chose to be a PhD student just for studying deeply in the area I have a passion on but forgot the role I have to take in the community. Therefore, the first step I take is to make my publishing plan rather than rely on my advisors to suggest me which conferences/journals I could try on whenever I make a progression. 

Generally, there are 3 kinds of sources available for the researchers: (1) Journals; (2) Conferences; (3) Pre-printed platform, e.g., arxiv.org. The following table is my publishing plan in my area, i.e., deep learning, natural language processing.



| Conference                                                   |                     Submission Deadline                      |   Rank | Is goal? |
| :----------------------------------------------------------- | :----------------------------------------------------------: | -----: | -------- |
| COLING (International Conference on Computational Linguistics) |                  biennial<br />July 1, 2020                  | CCF: B |          |
| AAAI (AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence)            | Abstract: September 1, 2020;<br/> Full paper : September 9, 2020. | CCF: A |          |
| NAACL                                                        |                      November 23, 2020                       | CCF: C |          |
| ACL (Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics) | Full paper submission (long & short): February 1, 2021 February 2, 2021 | CCF: A |          |
| NLPCC (CCF International Conference on NLP and Chinese Computing) |                         June 8, 2021                         | CCF: C |          |
| EMNLP (Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing) |    Abstract: May 10, 2021;<br />Full paper: May 15, 2021     | CCF: B |          |
| CoNLL (Conference on Computational Natural Language Learning) |                        June 14, 2021                         | CCF: C | yes      |
| ICLR (International Conference on Learning Representations)  |                          Oct, 2020                           |        |          |



